---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My first dive into javascript 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-09-05
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

This was my first time I learned javascript. I felt that parts of the tutoruials were hard. The tutorial was challenging because you could not move on until you finished the current page. I saw some differences from the coding languages I had learned from the past. Practice WODs in my opinion were not as helpful as I thought it would be. 

Comparing my past experiences to javascript I felt that the languages are similar. Before this class, I learned C, C++, Python, and a little bit of HTML. The biggest difference I felt when learning a coding language was when I was learning HTML. I felt that Javascript was very similar to C++. This is because they both have variables, functions, objects, and arrays. I personally like that you do not have to specify the data type when diclaring variables in javascript. I am a very lazy person. I do not want to think really hard about things so it is nice that you can use let or const and let the language take care of different data types. 

I do not know if javascript is a bad programming language or a good one yet. I would have to dive deeper to grasp that. I have only just started to learn javascript. I would like to learnd about the syntax. Ususally, when I get stuck in programming, it's because I don't know the syntax. I would like as much syntax sugar as possible. I have seen assembly before, and I think that was "bad" program because it is very hard to understand. 

I practiced the WODs more than one time. I remember getting Rx time on both of my practice WOD but I got the DNF time for my first WOD so that proves that The WODs did not help. I thought that the WOD will be a numerical calculation. It turned out that the WOD was manipulating text and not numbers. I am not fluent yet at Javascript so I did not know how to do calculations on text. That was the cause of my failure to finish the WOD. 
